.TH vkmark "1" "July 2017" "vkmark 2017.07"
.SH NAME
vkmark \- Vulkan benchmark suite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vkmark [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvkmark\fP is an extensible Vulkan benchmarking suite with targeted,
configurable scenes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-benchmark\fR BENCH
A benchmark to run: 'scene(:opt1=val1)*'
(the option can be used multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR WxH
Size of the output window (default: 800x600)
.TP
\fB\-\-fullscreen\fR
Run in fullscreen mode (equivalent to --size -1x-1)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-present-mode\fR PM
Vulkan present mode (default: mailbox)
[immediate, mailbox, fifo, fiforelaxed]
.TP
\fB\-\-pixel-format\fR PF
Vulkan pixel format (default: choose best)
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-scenes\fR
Display information about the available scenes
and their options
.TP
\fB\-\-show-all-options\fR
Show all scene option values used for benchmarks
(only explicitly set options are shown by default)
.TP
\fB\-\-winsys-dir\fR DIR
Directory to search in for window system plugins
.TP
\fB\-\-data-dir\fR DIR
Directory to search in for scene data files
.TP
\fB\-\-winsys\fR WS
Window system plugin to use (default: choose best)
[xcb, wayland, kms]
.TP
\fB\-\-winsys-options\fR OPTS
Window system options as 'opt1=val1(:opt2=val2)*'
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Display debug messages
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help
.SH BENCHMARKS
vkmark offers a suite of scenes that can be used to measure various aspects
of Vulkan performance. The way in which each scene is rendered is
configurable through a set of options. To get the available scenes and their
acceptable options you can use the \fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-scenes\fR command
line option.

In vkmark, a benchmark is defined as a scene plus a set of option values.
You can specify the list and order of the benchmarks to run by using the
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-benchmark\fR command line option (possibly multiple times).
If no benchmarks are specified, a default set of benchmarks is used. If a
benchmark option is not specified it assumes its default value (listed with
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-scenes\fR).

As a special case, a benchmark description string is allowed to not contain a
scene name (i.e. to start with ':'). In this case, any specified option values
are used as the default values for benchmarks following this description
string.

.SH EXAMPLES
To run the default benchmarks:
.PP
.RS
\fBvkmark\fR
.RE
.PP
To run a benchmark using scene 'vertex' with a 'duration' of '5.0' seconds
and 'interleave' set to 'false':
.PP
.RS
\fBvkmark -b vertex:duration=5.0:interleave=false\fR
.RE
.PP
To run a series of benchmarks use the \fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-benchmark\fR command
line option multiple times:
.PP
.RS
\fBvkmark -b vertex:duration=5.0 -b clear:color=1.0,0.5,0 -b cube\fR
.RE
.PP
To set default option values for benchmarks:
.PP
.RS
\fBvkmark -b :duration=2.0 -b vertex -b clear -b :duration=5.0 -b cube\fR
.RE
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
vkmark was written by Alexandros Frantzis
